Fredi Reyes 5/1/2020 CS 4420 Database Systems
Describe the design decisions made for each original column from the initial table, and why or
why not separate tables were used.

Year: Placed into tracks although this data can be removed since it can be calculated using
data from the position table.

Yearlyrank: Placed into tracks table although this data can be removed since it can be
calculated using data from the position table.

Source: This data was not used in the 3NF per instruction.

Prefix: Placed into tracks table as a composite key.

weeksCH: Placed into tracks table although this data can be removed since it can be calculated
using data from the position table.

Weeks40: Placed into tracks table although this data can be removed since it can be calculated
using data from the position table.

Weeks10: Placed into tracks table although this data can be removed since it can be calculated
using data from the position table.

Weekspeak: Placed into tracks table although this data can be removed since it can be
calculated using data from the position table.

Highest: Placed into tracks table although this data can be removed since it can be calculated
using data from the position table.

Verified: This data was not used in the 3NF per instruction.

Artist: Distinct values placed into people table and referred to by tracks table through a foreign
key. Placed into table separate from tracks since different tracks may refer to the same artist
and duplicate data is not desired.

Artistinverted: Placed into people table with corresponding artist value and referred to by
tracks table through a foreign key.

Tracktitle: Placed into tracks table.

Time: Placed into tracks table.

Symbol: This data was not used in the 3NF per instruction.

Label: Distinct values placed into recordlabel table and referred to by tracks table through a
foreign key. Placed into a table separate from tracks because the same label may be referred to
by different tracks and duplicate data is not desired.

Labnum: Placed into tracks table.

Genre: This data was not used in the 3NF per instruction.

Comment: Placed into tracks table.

Bpm: Placed into tracks table.

Writtenby1 - 8: Distinct values placed into people table with trackwriter table linking writers to
tracks with order noted. Second ‘Sheb Wooley’ excluded from trackwriter table. Empty strings
were excluded also. Placed into a table separate from tracks because the same writer may be
referred to by different tracks causing duplication and repeating groups are not permitted.

Dateentered: Placed into tracks table.

Datepeaked: Placed into tracks table although this data can be removed since it can be
calculated using data from the position table.

Week1 - 76: Values greater than 0 placed into position table and refers to and is refered by
track table through foreign keys. Placed into a table separate from tracks since a single track
has multiple week values and repeating groups are not permitted.
